Heart is organ in cardiovascular system.
Blood is fluid in cardiovascular system.
Heart pumps blood.
Blood circulates through body.
Lung is organ in respiratory system.
Lung exchanges oxygen and carbon dioxide.
Lung oxygenates blood.
Oxygen is necessary for life.
Brain is organ in central nervous system.
Spinal cord is structure in central nervous system.
Nerve is tissue in peripheral nervous system.
Brain controls body functions.
Stomach is organ in digestive system.
Intestine is organ in digestive system.
Stomach produces enzymes.
Enzymes digest food into nutrients.
Kidney is organ in urinary system.
Bladder is organ in urinary system.
Kidney produces urine.
Bladder stores urine.
Kidney filters blood waste.
Gland produces hormones.
Hormones regulate body metabolism.
Hormones maintain homeostasis.
Bone provides support to body.
Muscle enables movement of body.
Joint connects bones.
White blood cell is immune system cell.
Antibody is immune system protein.
White blood cell attacks pathogens.
Antibody binds to pathogens.
Skin is organ in integumentary system.
Skin protects body from environment.
Skin regulates temperature.
Ovary is female reproductive organ.
Testis is male reproductive organ.
Ovary produces estrogen.
Testis produces testosterone.
Chest pain indicates heart attack.
Dyspnea is symptom of heart attack.
Heart attack is severe condition.
Heart attack is life threatening.
Heart attack requires aspirin treatment.
Heart attack requires nitroglycerin treatment.
Heart attack requires emergency hospital care.
High blood pressure is chronic condition.
High blood pressure increases stroke risk.
High blood pressure increases heart disease risk.
High blood pressure requires antihypertensive treatment.
Hypertension requires diet and exercise modification.
Irregular heartbeat indicates atrial fibrillation.
Palpitations are symptom of atrial fibrillation.
Atrial fibrillation increases stroke risk.
Atrial fibrillation causes blood clots in atrium.
Atrial fibrillation requires anticoagulant treatment.
Atrial fibrillation requires INR monitoring.
Edema indicates heart failure.
Dyspnea is symptom of heart failure.
Fatigue is symptom of heart failure.
Heart failure is caused by weakened heart pump function.
Heart failure requires diuretic treatment.
Heart failure requires ACE inhibitor treatment.
Angina pectoris indicates coronary artery disease.
Coronary artery narrowing is caused by plaque.
High cholesterol is risk factor for coronary artery disease.
Coronary artery disease requires statin treatment.
Coronary artery disease may require angioplasty procedure.
Leg swelling indicates deep vein thrombosis.
Leg pain is symptom of deep vein thrombosis.
Deep vein thrombosis forms clot in deep leg vein.
Deep vein thrombosis increases pulmonary embolism risk.
Deep vein thrombosis requires heparin treatment.
Deep vein thrombosis requires warfarin treatment.
Shortness of breath indicates pulmonary embolism.
Chest pain is symptom of pulmonary embolism.
Pulmonary embolism is caused by clot in pulmonary artery.
Pulmonary embolism is severe and life threatening.
Pulmonary embolism requires thrombolysis treatment.
Pulmonary embolism requires oxygen support.
Fever indicates pneumonia.
Cough is symptom of pneumonia.
Pneumonia is caused by bacterial lung infection.
Pneumonia requires antibiotic treatment.
Pneumonia may require oxygen support.
Wheezing indicates asthma.
Dyspnea is symptom of asthma.
Asthma is caused by airway inflammation and constriction.
Asthma is triggered by allergens.
Asthma requires bronchodilator treatment.
Asthma requires corticosteroid treatment.
Chronic cough indicates COPD.
Sputum is symptom of COPD.
Smoking is risk factor for COPD.
COPD causes airflow obstruction.
COPD requires bronchodilator treatment.
COPD requires oxygen support.
Persistent cough indicates tuberculosis.
Night sweats are symptom of tuberculosis.
Weight loss is symptom of tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis is caused by mycobacterium lung infection.
Tuberculosis is contagious through airborne transmission.
Tuberculosis requires rifampin treatment.
Tuberculosis requires isoniazid treatment.
Tuberculosis requires six month treatment duration.
Hemoptysis indicates lung cancer.
Smoking is major risk factor for lung cancer.
Lung cancer is caused by malignant cell mutation.
Lung cancer may require chemotherapy treatment.
Lung cancer may require surgery procedure.
Dry hacking cough indicates pulmonary fibrosis.
Pulmonary fibrosis causes lung scarring.
Pulmonary fibrosis is progressive and fatal.
Pulmonary fibrosis may be slowed by pirfenidone.
Pulmonary fibrosis requires oxygen support.
Hemiparesis indicates stroke.
Facial drooping is symptom of stroke.
Speech difficulty is symptom of stroke.
Stroke is caused by brain artery occlusion with clot.
Stroke is severe and life threatening.
Stroke requires immediate TPA treatment.
TPA has three hour time window.
Memory loss indicates Alzheimer disease.
Confusion is symptom of Alzheimer disease.
Personality change is symptom of Alzheimer disease.
Alzheimer disease is caused by brain neuron degeneration.
Alzheimer disease is characterized by amyloid beta plaques in brain.
Alzheimer disease is progressive and irreversible.
Donepezil may support cognition in Alzheimer disease.
Resting tremor indicates Parkinson disease.
Bradykinesia is symptom of Parkinson disease.
Rigidity is symptom of Parkinson disease.
Parkinson disease is caused by loss of dopamine neurons in substantia nigra.
Parkinson disease is progressive and chronic.
Parkinson disease requires levodopa treatment.
Parkinson disease requires carbidopa treatment.
Visual disturbance indicates multiple sclerosis.
Weakness is symptom of multiple sclerosis.
Numbness is symptom of multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis is caused by nerve axon demyelination.
Multiple sclerosis is autoimmune immune attack.
Multiple sclerosis has relapsing remitting pattern.
Multiple sclerosis requires interferon treatment.
Seizure indicates epilepsy.
Loss of consciousness is symptom of epilepsy.
Epilepsy is caused by abnormal brain electrical activity.
Epilepsy is recurrent and chronic.
Epilepsy requires anticonvulsant treatment.
Epilepsy requires EEG monitoring.
Severe headache indicates migraine.
Photophobia is symptom of migraine.
Nausea is symptom of migraine.
Migraine is caused by brain vessel vasodilation and inflammation.
Stress triggers migraine.
Migraine requires triptan treatment.
Migraine may require beta blocker prophylaxis.
Stiff neck indicates meningitis.
Headache is symptom of meningitis.
Meningitis is caused by meninges inflammation from infection.
Meningitis is severe and life threatening.
Meningitis requires immediate ceftriaxone treatment.
Meningitis requires lumbar puncture procedure.
Heartburn indicates GERD.
Regurgitation is symptom of GERD.
GERD is caused by stomach acid reflux.
GERD is due to lower esophageal sphincter weakening.
GERD requires proton pump inhibitor treatment.
GERD requires diet and elevation modification.
Abdominal pain indicates peptic ulcer.
Bloating is symptom of peptic ulcer.
Peptic ulcer is caused by H pylori stomach infection.
Acid exposure causes mucosal erosion.
Peptic ulcer requires proton pump inhibitor treatment.
H pylori requires antibiotic treatment.
Chronic diarrhea indicates inflammatory bowel disease.
Blood in stool is symptom of inflammatory bowel disease.
Inflammatory bowel disease is caused by chronic intestine inflammation.
Inflammatory bowel disease is autoimmune disorder.
Inflammatory bowel disease requires mesalamine treatment.
Inflammatory bowel disease may require immunosuppressant treatment.
Jaundice indicates cirrhosis.
Ascites is symptom of cirrhosis.
Confusion is symptom of cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis is caused by liver scarring and fibrosis.
Alcohol is risk factor for cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis leads to liver failure dysfunction.
Cirrhosis may require liver transplant procedure.
Jaundice indicates hepatitis.
Fatigue is symptom of hepatitis.
Hepatitis is caused by viral liver infection.
Hepatitis has types A B and C.
Hepatitis C requires antiviral treatment.
Hepatitis B has vaccine prevention.
Severe abdominal pain indicates pancreatitis.
Nausea is symptom of pancreatitis.
Vomiting is symptom of pancreatitis.
Pancreatitis is caused by pancreas inflammation from enzymes.
Alcohol is risk factor for pancreatitis.
Pancreatitis requires NPO management.
Pancreatitis requires IV fluid support.
Rectal bleeding indicates colorectal cancer.
Changed bowel habits are symptom of colorectal cancer.
Colorectal cancer develops from polyp to malignancy.
Age over 50 requires colonoscopy screening.
Colorectal cancer requires surgery treatment.
Colorectal cancer may require chemotherapy treatment.
Hyperglycemia indicates type 1 diabetes.
Polyuria is symptom of type 1 diabetes.
Polydipsia is symptom of type 1 diabetes.
Type 1 diabetes is caused by pancreatic beta cell destruction.
Type 1 diabetes is autoimmune immune attack.
Type 1 diabetes requires insulin treatment.
Type 1 diabetes requires blood glucose monitoring.
Hyperglycemia indicates type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes is caused by tissue insulin resistance.
Obesity is risk factor for type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes requires metformin treatment.
Type 2 diabetes requires diet and exercise modification.
Fatigue indicates hypothyroidism.
Weight gain is symptom of hypothyroidism.
Cold intolerance is symptom of hypothyroidism.
Hypothyroidism is caused by thyroid gland underfunctioning.
Hypothyroidism leads to metabolism dysfunction.
Hypothyroidism requires levothyroxine treatment.
Hypothyroidism requires TSH monitoring.
Weight loss indicates hyperthyroidism.
Tachycardia is symptom of hyperthyroidism.
Tremor is symptom of hyperthyroidism.
Hyperthyroidism is caused by thyroid gland overfunctioning.
Graves disease causes hyperthyroidism through antibodies.
Hyperthyroidism requires methimazole treatment.
Hyperthyroidism may require radioiodine therapy procedure.
Moon face indicates Cushing syndrome.
Buffalo hump is symptom of Cushing syndrome.
Hypertension is symptom of Cushing syndrome.
Cushing syndrome is caused by excess cortisol hormone.
Pituitary gland tumor causes ACTH excess.
Cushing syndrome requires ketoconazole treatment.
Cushing syndrome may require surgery procedure.
Hypotension indicates Addison disease.
Hyperpigmentation is symptom of Addison disease.
Addison disease is caused by adrenal gland cortisol insufficiency.
Addison disease is autoimmune immune destruction.
Addisonian crisis is life threatening complication.
Addison disease requires hydrocortisone treatment.
Proteinuria indicates chronic kidney disease.
Diabetes is risk factor for chronic kidney disease.
Chronic kidney disease is caused by kidney nephron damage.
Chronic kidney disease is progressive to renal failure.
Chronic kidney disease requires ACE inhibitor treatment.
Chronic kidney disease may require dialysis procedure.
Dysuria indicates urinary tract infection.
Frequency is symptom of urinary tract infection.
Urgency is symptom of urinary tract infection.
Urinary tract infection is caused by bacterial infection.
E coli is most common UTI pathogen.
Urinary tract infection requires antibiotic treatment.
Female gender is risk factor for urinary tract infection.
Oliguria indicates acute kidney injury.
Sepsis is risk factor for acute kidney injury.
Acute kidney injury is caused by acute kidney damage.
Acute kidney injury is severe and life threatening.
Acute kidney injury may require dialysis treatment.
Acute kidney injury requires creatinine monitoring.
Heavy proteinuria indicates nephrotic syndrome.
Hypoalbuminemia is symptom of nephrotic syndrome.
Nephrotic syndrome is caused by glomerulus podocyte damage.
Nephrotic syndrome leads to protein loss dysfunction.
Nephrotic syndrome requires corticosteroid treatment.
Nephrotic syndrome requires urine protein monitoring.
Flank pain indicates kidney stones.
Hematuria is symptom of kidney stones.
Kidney stones are caused by calculi formation in kidney.
Dehydration is risk factor for kidney stones.
Kidney stones require hydration management.
Kidney stones require analgesic pain control.
Kidney stones may require lithotripsy procedure.
SIRS indicates sepsis.
Hypotension is symptom of sepsis.
Tachycardia is symptom of sepsis.
Sepsis is caused by bacterial blood infection.
Sepsis is severe and life threatening.
Septic shock is emergency complication.
Sepsis requires immediate broad spectrum antibiotic treatment.
Sepsis requires IV fluid support.
Immunodeficiency indicates HIV.
Opportunistic infection is symptom of HIV.
HIV is caused by virus that destroys CD4 cells.
HIV progresses to AIDS.
HIV requires antiretroviral therapy treatment.
HIV requires CD4 count monitoring.
Myalgia indicates influenza.
Influenza is caused by respiratory influenza virus infection.
Influenza is contagious through airborne transmission.
Influenza may require oseltamivir treatment.
Influenza has vaccine prevention with flu shot.
Cyclic fever indicates malaria.
Chills are symptom of malaria.
Sweating is symptom of malaria.
Malaria is caused by plasmodium blood parasite.
Mosquito transmits malaria.
Malaria requires chloroquine treatment.
Travel to endemic area requires antimalarial prophylaxis.
Erythema indicates cellulitis.
Warmth is symptom of cellulitis.
Swelling is symptom of cellulitis.
Cellulitis is caused by bacterial skin infection.
Streptococcus is common cellulitis pathogen.
Cellulitis requires beta lactam antibiotic treatment.
Cellulitis requires monitoring of erythema spread.
Persistent fever indicates endocarditis.
Heart murmur is symptom of endocarditis.
Emboli are symptom of endocarditis.
Endocarditis is caused by bacterial heart valve infection.
IV drug use is risk factor for endocarditis.
Endocarditis is severe and life threatening.
Endocarditis requires vancomycin treatment.
Endocarditis may require valve replacement procedure.
Joint pain indicates rheumatoid arthritis.
Morning stiffness is symptom of rheumatoid arthritis.
Joint swelling is symptom of rheumatoid arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is caused by joint synovium inflammation.
Rheumatoid arthritis is autoimmune immune attack.
Rheumatoid arthritis causes cartilage destruction.
Rheumatoid arthritis requires methotrexate treatment.
Rheumatoid arthritis may require biologic treatment.
Malar rash indicates systemic lupus erythematosus.
SLE is caused by autoantibody attack on multiple organs.
SLE is autoimmune systemic disease.
SLE affects multiple organ systems.
SLE requires hydroxychloroquine treatment.
SLE requires corticosteroid treatment.
Celiac disease is caused by intestine reaction to gluten protein.
Celiac disease is autoimmune immune response.
Celiac disease causes villi damage.
Celiac disease requires gluten free diet treatment.
Skin plaques indicate psoriasis.
Scaling is symptom of psoriasis.
Itching is symptom of psoriasis.
Psoriasis is caused by rapid keratinocyte proliferation.
Psoriasis is autoimmune immune mediated.
Psoriasis is chronic and relapsing.
Psoriasis requires topical corticosteroid treatment.
Psoriasis may require biologic treatment.
Pallor indicates anemia.
Anemia is caused by hemoglobin and red blood cell deficiency.
Iron deficiency is common cause of anemia.
Iron deficiency anemia requires iron supplement treatment.
Anemia requires CBC monitoring.
Blast cells indicate leukemia.
Easy bruising is symptom of leukemia.
Leukemia is caused by malignant uncontrolled white blood cell growth.
Leukemia is severe cancer.
Leukemia requires chemotherapy treatment.
Leukemia may require bone marrow transplant procedure.
Excessive bleeding indicates hemophilia.
Hemarthrosis is symptom of hemophilia.
Hemophilia is caused by clotting factor VIII or IX deficiency.
Hemophilia is inherited as X linked genetic disorder.
Hemophilia requires factor replacement treatment.
Severe bleeding in hemophilia requires immediate emergency treatment.
Pain crisis indicates sickle cell disease.
Anemia is symptom of sickle cell disease.
Sickle cell disease is caused by hemoglobin S mutation.
Sickled cells cause microvasculature occlusion.
Sickle cell disease is inherited as autosomal recessive genetic disorder.
Sickle cell disease requires hydroxyurea treatment.
Pain crisis requires analgesic support.
Petechiae indicate thrombocytopenia.
Bruising is symptom of thrombocytopenia.
Bleeding is symptom of thrombocytopenia.
Thrombocytopenia is caused by decreased platelet count.
Medication is risk factor for thrombocytopenia.
Severe thrombocytopenia can cause hemorrhage.
Thrombocytopenia may require platelet transfusion treatment.
Beta blocker is cardiovascular drug class.
Beta blocker blocks beta adrenergic receptor.
Beta blocker decreases heart rate.
Beta blocker decreases blood pressure.
Beta blocker is indicated for hypertension.
Beta blocker is indicated for angina.
ACE inhibitor is cardiovascular drug class.
ACE inhibitor inhibits ACE enzyme.
ACE inhibitor prevents angiotensin 1 to angiotensin 2 conversion.
ACE inhibitor causes vasodilation.
ACE inhibitor decreases blood pressure.
ACE inhibitor is indicated for hypertension.
ACE inhibitor is indicated for heart failure.
Statin is lipid drug class.
Statin inhibits HMG CoA reductase enzyme.
Statin decreases cholesterol synthesis.
Statin lowers LDL cholesterol.
Statin is indicated for hyperlipidemia.
Statin reduces cardiovascular risk.
Proton pump inhibitor is GI drug class.
Proton pump inhibitor inhibits H K ATPase enzyme.
Proton pump inhibitor suppresses gastric acid secretion.
Proton pump inhibitor heals ulcers.
Proton pump inhibitor is indicated for GERD.
Proton pump inhibitor is indicated for peptic ulcer.
NSAID is analgesic drug class.
NSAID inhibits COX enzyme.
NSAID decreases prostaglandin synthesis.
NSAID has anti inflammatory effect.
NSAID has analgesic effect.
NSAID has antipyretic effect.
NSAID increases GI bleeding risk.
Opioid is analgesic drug class.
Opioid binds mu opioid receptor.
Opioid provides pain relief.
Opioid causes sedation.
Opioid causes respiratory depression risk.
Opioid has dependence risk.
Benzodiazepine is anxiolytic drug class.
Benzodiazepine enhances GABA receptor activity.
Benzodiazepine provides anxiolysis.
Benzodiazepine provides sedation.
Benzodiazepine is indicated for anxiety.
Benzodiazepine causes dependence risk.
Penicillin is beta lactam drug class.
Penicillin inhibits peptidoglycan bacterial wall synthesis.
Penicillin is bactericidal against gram positive bacteria.
Penicillin is indicated for bacterial infection.
Beta lactamase has resistance to penicillin.
Fluoroquinolone is antibiotic drug class.
Fluoroquinolone inhibits DNA gyrase enzyme.
Fluoroquinolone is bactericidal with broad spectrum activity.
Fluoroquinolone is indicated for UTI.
Fluoroquinolone increases tendon rupture risk.
Warfarin is oral anticoagulant drug.
Warfarin inhibits vitamin K epoxide reductase enzyme.
Warfarin decreases clotting factor synthesis.
Warfarin is indicated for atrial fibrillation.
Warfarin requires INR monitoring.
Warfarin increases bleeding risk.
Insulin is pancreatic hormone drug.
Insulin facilitates glucose uptake.
Insulin decreases blood glucose.
Insulin is indicated for diabetes mellitus.
Insulin causes hypoglycemia risk.
Corticosteroid is anti inflammatory drug class.
Corticosteroid inhibits phospholipase enzyme.
Corticosteroid suppresses inflammation.
Corticosteroid suppresses immune response.
Corticosteroid is indicated for autoimmune disease.
Corticosteroid increases infection risk.
Corticosteroid causes osteoporosis.
Warfarin is anticoagulant.
NSAID is analgesic.
Warfarin and NSAID combination increases GI bleeding risk.
Warfarin inhibits blood clotting.
NSAID damages GI tract mucosa.
Warfarin and NSAID combination is contraindicated.
Statin is lipid drug.
Fibrate is lipid drug.
Statin and fibrate combination increases myopathy risk.
Severe myopathy can cause rhabdomyolysis.
Statin and fibrate combination requires CPK monitoring.
ACE inhibitor is cardiovascular drug.
Potassium supplement is mineral electrolyte.
ACE inhibitor and potassium combination increases hyperkalemia risk.
ACE inhibitor decreases potassium excretion.
ACE inhibitor and potassium combination requires serum potassium monitoring.
SSRI is antidepressant drug class.
MAOI is antidepressant drug class.
SSRI and MAOI combination causes serotonin syndrome risk.
Serotonin syndrome is severe and life threatening.
SSRI and MAOI is absolute contraindication.
MAOI requires two week washout period.
Echocardiography is diagnostic cardiac procedure.
Echocardiography uses ultrasound to image heart.
Echocardiography evaluates cardiac function.
Echocardiography visualizes valve abnormality.
Echocardiography is indicated for heart failure.
Echocardiography is noninvasive and safe.
CT scan is diagnostic radiology procedure.
CT scan uses X ray radiation.
CT scan creates cross sectional images.
CT scan identifies pathology.
CT scan exposes patient to radiation.
CT scan may require IV contrast.
MRI is diagnostic radiology procedure.
MRI uses magnetic field for imaging.
MRI creates detailed images.
MRI is excellent for soft tissue imaging.
MRI has no radiation and is safer.
MRI is contraindicated with metal implants.
Colonoscopy is diagnostic GI procedure.
Colonoscopy uses endoscope to examine colon.
Colonoscopy visualizes polyps.
Colonoscopy can remove polyps therapeutically.
Colonoscopy is indicated for colorectal cancer screening.
Colonoscopy requires bowel preparation.
ECG is diagnostic cardiac test.
ECG records electrical heart activity.
ECG identifies arrhythmia abnormality.
ECG is indicated for chest pain.
ECG is quick and noninvasive.
Blood culture is diagnostic microbiology test.
Blood culture grows blood sample.
Blood culture identifies bacteremia.
Blood culture is indicated for sepsis.
Blood culture determines antibiotic choice for treatment.
Lumbar puncture is diagnostic neurology procedure.
Lumbar puncture obtains CSF sample.
Lumbar puncture examines CSF cells.
Lumbar puncture is indicated for meningitis.
Lumbar puncture has headache risk.
Lumbar puncture is contraindicated with increased intracranial pressure.
CABG is surgical cardiac procedure.
CABG bypasses coronary artery blockage.
CABG is indicated for severe coronary artery disease.
CABG uses vein or artery graft.
CABG improves blood flow outcome.
CABG has stroke risk.
Appendectomy is surgical general surgery procedure.
Appendectomy removes inflamed appendix.
Appendectomy is indicated for appendicitis.
Appendectomy is urgent emergency procedure.
Appendectomy prevents peritonitis complication.
Hip replacement is surgical orthopedic procedure.
Hip replacement replaces hip joint.
Hip replacement is indicated for osteoarthritis.
Hip replacement uses prosthesis.
Hip replacement improves mobility outcome.
Hip replacement requires physical therapy rehabilitation.
Thyroidectomy is surgical endocrine procedure.
Thyroidectomy removes thyroid gland.
Thyroidectomy is indicated for thyroid cancer.
Thyroidectomy is indicated for hyperthyroidism.
Thyroidectomy requires lifelong levothyroxine replacement.
Thyroidectomy has hypoparathyroidism and recurrent laryngeal nerve damage risk.
Nephrectomy is surgical urologic procedure.
Nephrectomy removes kidney.
Nephrectomy is indicated for renal cell carcinoma.
Nephrectomy is indicated for non functioning kidney.
Nephrectomy can be curative for localized cancer outcome.
Remaining kidney requires adequate function after nephrectomy.
Cardiologist is cardiology specialist.
Cardiologist specializes in heart disease.
Cardiologist performs echocardiography procedure.
Cardiologist performs cardiac catheterization procedure.
Cardiologist manages heart failure condition.
Cardiologist manages arrhythmia condition.
Pulmonologist is pulmonology specialist.
Pulmonologist specializes in lung disease.
Pulmonologist performs bronchoscopy procedure.
Pulmonologist manages asthma condition.
Pulmonologist manages COPD condition.
Pulmonologist manages pulmonary fibrosis condition.
Neurologist is neurology specialist.
Neurologist specializes in neurological disorders.
Neurologist interprets EEG.
Neurologist manages epilepsy condition.
Neurologist manages stroke condition.
Neurologist manages Parkinson disease condition.
Gastroenterologist is gastroenterology specialist.
Gastroenterologist specializes in digestive system.
Gastroenterologist performs colonoscopy procedure.
Gastroenterologist performs endoscopy procedure.
Gastroenterologist manages inflammatory bowel disease condition.
Gastroenterologist manages cirrhosis condition.
Endocrinologist is endocrinology specialist.
Endocrinologist specializes in hormone disorders.
Endocrinologist manages diabetes condition.
Endocrinologist manages thyroid disease condition.
Endocrinologist manages adrenal disorders condition.
Nephrologist is nephrology specialist.
Nephrologist specializes in kidney disease.
Nephrologist manages chronic kidney disease condition.
Nephrologist manages acute kidney injury condition.
Nephrologist oversees dialysis procedure.
Hematologist is hematology specialist.
Hematologist specializes in blood disorders.
Hematologist manages anemia condition.
Hematologist manages leukemia condition.
Hematologist manages hemophilia condition.
Hematologist interprets bone marrow biopsy.
Oncologist is oncology specialist.
Oncologist specializes in cancer.
Oncologist prescribes chemotherapy.
Oncologist coordinates radiation therapy.
Oncologist provides care to cancer patients.
Infectious disease specialist is ID specialist.
Infectious disease specialist specializes in infections.
Infectious disease specialist manages sepsis condition.
Infectious disease specialist manages HIV condition.
Infectious disease specialist manages tuberculosis condition.
Infectious disease specialist provides antimicrobial stewardship advice.
Emergency medicine physician is EM physician.
Emergency medicine physician specializes in acute care.
Emergency medicine physician works in emergency department.
Emergency medicine physician triages patients.
Emergency medicine physician stabilizes life threatening conditions.
Diabetes is chronic metabolic disease.
Diabetes causes diabetic retinopathy complication.
Diabetes causes diabetic neuropathy complication.
Diabetes causes diabetic nephropathy complication.
Hyperglycemia damages blood vessel microvasculature.
Glycemic control prevents diabetes complications.
Diabetes requires regular eye exam screening.
Metabolic syndrome is cluster of risk factors.
Metabolic syndrome includes obesity component.
Metabolic syndrome includes hypertension component.
Metabolic syndrome includes dyslipidemia component.
Metabolic syndrome includes insulin resistance component.
Metabolic syndrome increases type 2 diabetes risk.
Metabolic syndrome increases cardiovascular disease risk.
Metabolic syndrome requires lifestyle modification management.
Acute coronary syndrome is spectrum of cardiac ischemia.
Acute coronary syndrome includes STEMI type.
Acute coronary syndrome includes NSTEMI type.
Acute coronary syndrome includes unstable angina type.
Atherosclerotic plaque rupture causes acute coronary syndrome.
Thrombosis causes acute coronary syndrome.
Acute coronary syndrome requires urgent revascularization.
Acute coronary syndrome requires antiplatelet treatment.
Shock is life threatening emergency.
Shock includes hypovolemic type.
Shock includes cardiogenic type.
Shock includes distributive type.
Shock includes obstructive type.
Shock causes inadequate tissue perfusion.
Shock leads to organ failure.
Shock requires immediate resuscitation.
Pneumonia is lung parenchyma infection.
Pneumonia is classified as community acquired.
Pneumonia is classified as hospital acquired.
Pneumonia is classified as ventilator associated.
Community acquired pneumonia commonly caused by streptococcus.
Hospital acquired pneumonia commonly caused by pseudomonas.
Pneumonia severity is assessed by CURB 65 score.
Pneumonia requires empirical antibiotic treatment.
Renal replacement therapy is life sustaining therapy.
Renal replacement therapy is indicated for end stage renal disease.
Renal replacement therapy includes hemodialysis modality.
Renal replacement therapy includes peritoneal dialysis modality.
Renal replacement therapy includes kidney transplant modality.
Renal replacement therapy replaces kidney function.
Renal replacement therapy eliminates waste and toxins.
Vaccination is prevention intervention for infectious disease.
Vaccine stimulates immune response mechanism.
Vaccine produces protective antibody result.
Vaccine requires primary and booster timing schedule.
Vaccine is contraindicated in immunocompromised patients.
Vaccine prevents disease infection benefit.
High vaccination rate contributes to herd immunity.
TNM is cancer staging classification system.
T component assesses tumor size.
N component assesses node involvement.
M component assesses metastasis presence.
Staging determines prognosis purpose.
Staging informs treatment decision.
TNM is used universally in oncology standard.
Antibiotic resistance is public health problem.
Antibiotic resistance is caused by antibiotic overuse.
Bacteria develop resistance through mutation mechanism.
MRSA is example of antibiotic resistance.
VRE is example of antibiotic resistance.
MDR TB is example of antibiotic resistance.
Antimicrobial stewardship is solution to antibiotic resistance.
Appropriate antibiotic use prevents antibiotic resistance.
Palliative care is holistic care approach.
Palliative care focuses on symptom management.
Palliative care improves quality of life goal.
Palliative care addresses pain.
Palliative care addresses psychological distress.
Palliative care is appropriate for terminal illness.
Palliative care involves interdisciplinary team.
Osteoporosis is metabolic bone disease.
Osteoporosis is caused by decreased bone density and mineralization.
Menopause is risk factor for osteoporosis.
Aging is risk factor for osteoporosis.
Osteoporosis increases fracture risk complication.
Osteoporosis is diagnosed by DEXA scan screening.
Osteoporosis requires bisphosphonate treatment.
Osteoporosis requires adequate calcium and vitamin D prevention.
Glaucoma is eye disease affecting optic nerve.
Glaucoma is caused by increased intraocular pressure.
Glaucoma leads to optic nerve damage.
Glaucoma causes progressive vision loss consequence.
Glaucoma requires tonometry screening.
Glaucoma requires eye drop treatment.
Acute glaucoma requires emergency surgery.
Gout is inflammatory arthritis condition.
Gout is caused by uric acid crystal deposition in joint.
Hyperuricemia is risk factor for gout.
Gout presents as acute painful joint.
Gout commonly affects great toe location.
Acute gout is treated with NSAID or colchicine.
Chronic gout is prevented with long term allopurinol.
Gout requires diet and alcohol modification lifestyle.
Schizophrenia is psychiatric psychotic disorder.
Hallucinations are symptom of schizophrenia.
Delusions are symptom of schizophrenia.
Disorganized thought is symptom of schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is caused by dopamine pathway dysfunction.
Schizophrenia is chronic and lifelong.
Schizophrenia requires antipsychotic treatment.
Schizophrenia requires psychosocial support.
Depression is psychiatric mood disorder.
Depressed mood is symptom of depression.
Anhedonia is symptom of depression.
Depression is caused by neurotransmitter imbalance.
Depression persists for two weeks duration.
Depression requires SSRI treatment.
Depression benefits from psychotherapy.
Bipolar disorder is psychiatric mood disorder.
Bipolar disorder has manic episode.
Bipolar disorder has depressive episode.
Euphoria is symptom in manic bipolar disorder.
Decreased sleep is symptom in manic bipolar disorder.
Bipolar disorder is caused by mood regulation dysfunction.
Bipolar disorder requires mood stabilizer treatment.
Bipolar disorder requires lithium level monitoring.
Anaphylaxis is severe hypersensitivity reaction condition.
Urticaria is symptom of anaphylaxis.
Angioedema is symptom of anaphylaxis.
Bronchospasm is symptom of anaphylaxis.
Anaphylaxis is severe and life threatening.
Anaphylaxis is caused by rapid histamine release.
Anaphylaxis requires immediate epinephrine emergency treatment.
Epinephrine is administered by IM route.
Myxedema coma is severe form of hypothyroidism condition.
Hypothermia is symptom of myxedema coma.
Altered mental status is symptom of myxedema coma.
Bradycardia is symptom of myxedema coma.
Myxedema coma is severe and life threatening.
Myxedema coma requires ICU care with IV levothyroxine emergency.
Myxedema coma requires warming support.
Pericarditis is inflammation of pericardium condition.
Pleuritic chest pain is symptom of pericarditis.
Chest pain is improved by leaning forward.
Pericarditis has pericardial friction rub on auscultation finding.
ECG shows ST elevation in pericarditis test.
Pericarditis requires NSAID treatment.
Pericarditis may require colchicine treatment.
Cirrhosis has portal hypertension complication.
Portal hypertension is caused by increased portal pressure and resistance.
Portal hypertension leads to esophageal varices development.
Portal hypertension leads to ascites development.
Portal hypertension leads to splenomegaly development.
Esophageal varices increase bleeding risk.
Esophageal varices require beta blocker or band ligation treatment.
Adrenal crisis is emergency life threatening condition.
Adrenal crisis is caused by acute severe cortisol deficiency.
Severe hypotension is symptom of adrenal crisis.
Shock is symptom of adrenal crisis.
Stress from infection or surgery triggers adrenal crisis.
Adrenal crisis requires immediate IV hydrocortisone emergency treatment.
Adrenal crisis requires IV fluids and electrolytes support.
Diabetic ketoacidosis is emergency life threatening condition.
Diabetic ketoacidosis is caused by absolute insulin deficiency and ketosis.
Diabetic ketoacidosis shows elevated blood glucose lab.
Diabetic ketoacidosis shows elevated ketones lab.
Diabetic ketoacidosis shows metabolic acidosis lab.
Kussmaul respiration is symptom of diabetic ketoacidosis.
Diabetic ketoacidosis requires immediate IV insulin treatment.
Diabetic ketoacidosis requires IV fluids and electrolytes support.
ARDS is critical life threatening condition.
ARDS is caused by alveolar capillary membrane inflammation.
ARDS leads to gas exchange dysfunction.
Severe hypoxemia is symptom of ARDS.
Bilateral infiltrates are symptom of ARDS.
Sepsis or pneumonia triggers ARDS cause.
ARDS requires mechanical ventilation treatment.
ARDS uses low tidal volume strategy.
Myasthenia gravis is autoimmune neuromuscular junction condition.
Myasthenia gravis is caused by antibodies blocking and destroying acetylcholine receptor.
Fluctuating weakness is symptom of myasthenia gravis.
Ptosis is symptom of myasthenia gravis.
Diplopia is symptom of myasthenia gravis.
Weakness worsens with activity and fatigue.
Myasthenia gravis is diagnosed by tensilon test.
Myasthenia gravis requires pyridostigmine treatment.
Myasthenic crisis is emergency complication of myasthenia gravis.
Guillain Barre syndrome is autoimmune peripheral nerve condition.
Guillain Barre syndrome is caused by peripheral nerve demyelination by antibodies.
Ascending paralysis is symptom of Guillain Barre syndrome.
Diminished reflexes are symptom of Guillain Barre syndrome.
Viral infection often precedes Guillain Barre syndrome.
Guillain Barre syndrome can cause respiratory failure.
Guillain Barre syndrome requires IVIG treatment.
Guillain Barre syndrome requires plasmapheresis treatment.
Guillain Barre syndrome requires respiratory function monitoring.
Diverticulitis is inflammation of diverticula condition.
Diverticulitis is caused by diverticulum bacterial infection.
Left lower quadrant pain is symptom of diverticulitis.
Diverticulitis can cause perforation and peritonitis complication.
Diverticulitis is diagnosed by CT scan imaging.
Diverticulitis requires antibiotic and bowel rest treatment.
Complicated diverticulitis may require surgery resection.
Aortic dissection is emergency life threatening condition.
Aortic dissection is caused by aortic intima tear and blood dissection.
Hypertension is risk factor for aortic dissection.
Tearing chest pain is symptom of aortic dissection.
Back pain is symptom of aortic dissection.
Aortic dissection has blood pressure asymmetry in arms finding.
Aortic dissection is diagnosed by CT angiography imaging.
Aortic dissection requires immediate beta blocker and blood pressure control treatment.
Type A dissection may require emergency surgery.
Acute pancreatitis is inflammation of pancreas condition.
Gallstone obstruction of biliary tree causes acute pancreatitis.
Acute pancreatitis shows elevated lipase lab.
Acute pancreatitis shows elevated amylase lab.
Epigastric pain is symptom of acute pancreatitis.
CT abdomen shows pancreas inflammation imaging.
Acute pancreatitis requires NPO and IV fluids management.
Gallstone pancreatitis may require ERCP procedure.
Pulmonary hypertension is cardiac vascular condition.
Pulmonary hypertension is caused by increased pulmonary artery pressure and resistance.
Pulmonary hypertension leads to right heart failure dysfunction.
Pulmonary hypertension is diagnosed by echocardiography imaging.
Pulmonary hypertension is confirmed by right heart catheterization.
Pulmonary hypertension requires sildenafil treatment.
Pulmonary hypertension may require prostacyclin treatment.
Alcohol withdrawal is withdrawal syndrome from alcohol condition.
Alcohol withdrawal is caused by sudden cessation of chronic alcohol use.
Tremor is symptom of alcohol withdrawal.
Agitation is symptom of alcohol withdrawal.
Diaphoresis is symptom of alcohol withdrawal.
Alcohol withdrawal can progress to delirium tremens.
Delirium tremens is severe and life threatening.
Alcohol withdrawal requires benzodiazepine treatment.
Alcohol withdrawal requires CIWA score monitoring.
Preeclampsia is pregnancy hypertensive complication condition.
Preeclampsia is caused by placenta vascular development dysfunction.
Preeclampsia presents after twenty weeks gestation.
Proteinuria is symptom of preeclampsia in pregnancy.
Hypertension is symptom of preeclampsia in pregnancy.
Preeclampsia can progress to eclampsia.
Preeclampsia requires magnesium sulfate treatment.
Delivery cures preeclampsia definitively.
Sickle cell crisis is acute complication of sickle cell disease condition.
Sickle cell crisis is caused by microvasculature occlusion by sickled red blood cells.
Dehydration or infection triggers sickle cell crisis.
Severe body pain is symptom of sickle cell crisis.
Sickle cell crisis can cause organ damage.
Sickle cell crisis requires aggressive hydration management.
Sickle cell crisis requires opioid pain control treatment.
Severe vaso occlusive crisis may require exchange transfusion procedure.
