The Stone Age is part of prehistory.
The Bronze Age is part of prehistory.
The Iron Age is part of prehistory.
Humans discovered fire.
Fire enabled cooking.
Cooking improved survival.
Humans developed agriculture.
Agriculture enabled food surplus.
Food surplus allowed settlements.
Settlements led to cities.
Cities created civilization.

Egypt is an ancient civilization.
Egypt was ruled by pharaohs.
Egyptians built pyramids.
Pyramids served as tombs.
Tombs honored the pharaohs.
The Nile River is located in Egypt.
The Nile River flooded annually.
Flooding enriched the soil.
Fertile soil enabled agriculture.
Agriculture supported civilization.
Tutankhamun was a pharaoh of Egypt.
Cleopatra was a pharaoh of Egypt.
Ramses II was a pharaoh of Egypt.
Ramses II led military campaigns.
Military campaigns expanded territory.
Ramses II built monuments.

Mesopotamia is an ancient civilization.
Sumerians lived in Mesopotamia.
Sumerians invented cuneiform.
Cuneiform is the first known writing system.
Cuneiform was used for record keeping.
Record keeping enabled trade.
Hammurabi ruled Babylon.
Hammurabi created a code of laws.
The code of laws is the first known written law.
Written law established justice.
Justice organized society.
The Tigris River flows through Mesopotamia.
The Euphrates River flows through Mesopotamia.
Both rivers enabled irrigation.
Irrigation supported agriculture.
Agriculture led to cities.

Greece is a classical civilization.
Greece had a political system of city-states.
Athens is a Greek city-state.
Sparta is a Greek city-state.
Athens developed democracy.
Democracy is the first known direct democracy.
Direct democracy influenced modern government.
Democracy allowed citizen participation.
Sparta focused on military training.
Military training created a warrior society.
The warrior society dominated Greek warfare.
Sparta valued discipline.
Socrates was a philosopher in Athens.
Plato was a philosopher in Athens.
Aristotle was a philosopher in Greece.
Socrates developed the Socratic method.
The Socratic method is used for critical thinking.
Critical thinking influenced philosophy.
Socrates taught Plato.
Plato founded the Academy.
Plato developed the theory of forms.
Plato wrote the Republic.
The theory of forms influenced Western philosophy.
Aristotle was a student of Plato.
Aristotle founded the Lyceum.
Aristotle developed logic.
Aristotle created the scientific method.
Aristotle tutored Alexander the Great.
Alexander the Great was king of Macedon.
Alexander conquered the Persian Empire.
Alexander created the Hellenistic Empire.
The Hellenistic Empire spread Greek culture.
Persia invaded Greece.
Greece fought Persia.
Athens won the Battle of Marathon.
Sparta defended Thermopylae.
Greek victory preserved independence.
Athens fought Sparta.
The Peloponnesian War lasted 27 years.
Sparta won the war.
The war weakened Greece.
Weakness led to Macedonian conquest.
The Olympic Games were held in Olympia.
The Olympic Games honored Zeus.
The games united Greek city-states.
The games promoted peaceful competition.
Ancient Olympics influenced modern Olympics.

Rome is a classical civilization.
Rome was a republic.
Rome was an empire.
Romulus founded Rome.
The founding was dated 753 BC.
Rome started as a small city.
The small city grew into a great empire.
Roman civilization lasted 1000 years.
The Senate governed Rome.
The Senate represented the aristocracy.
The Senate made laws.
The Senate controlled the military.
Julius Caesar was a general of Rome.
Julius Caesar conquered Gaul.
Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon.
Julius Caesar became dictator.
The Senate assassinated Julius Caesar.
The assassination triggered civil war.
Octavian fought Mark Antony.
Octavian won the Battle of Actium.
Octavian became Augustus.
Augustus was the first emperor of Rome.
Augustus ended the republic.
Augustus started the empire.
Augustus established Pax Romana.
Pax Romana lasted 200 years.
Pax Romana enabled trade.
Culture flourished during the empire.
Roman culture spread widely.
Rome built roads.
Rome constructed aqueducts.
Rome invented concrete.
Infrastructure connected the empire.
Roman engineering influenced modern construction.
Rome developed a legal system.
Justinian codified Roman law.
Roman law established rights and duties.
Roman law influenced modern law.
Modern law is based on civil law.
Jesus founded Christianity.
Apostles spread Christianity.
Rome persecuted Christians.
Constantine converted to Christianity.
Christianity became the official religion.
Constantine was emperor of Rome.
Constantine won the Battle of Milvian Bridge.
The Edict of Milan legalized Christianity.
Constantine founded Constantinople.
Barbarians invaded Rome.
The empire divided into East and West.
Division weakened the empire.
Visigoths sacked Rome.
Western Rome fell in 476 AD.

China is an ancient civilization.
Qin is a Chinese dynasty.
Han is a Chinese dynasty.
Qin Shi Huang was emperor of the Qin Dynasty.
Qin Shi Huang unified China.
Qin Shi Huang standardized writing.
Qin Shi Huang built the Great Wall.
Qin Shi Huang created the Terracotta Army.
The Qin Dynasty built the Great Wall.
The Great Wall protected against invasions.
The Han Dynasty extended the Great Wall.
The Great Wall is the longest structure.
The Great Wall is a symbol of China.
The Han Dynasty lasted 400 years.
The Han Dynasty developed papermaking.
The Han Dynasty established the Silk Road.
Culture and science flourished.
The Silk Road connected East and West.
The Silk Road was used to trade goods.
The Silk Road exchanged ideas.
The Silk Road spread culture.
Confucius was a philosopher in China.
Confucius taught ethics.
Confucianism emphasized respect.
Confucianism influenced Chinese society.
Confucianism spread to East Asia.
China invented paper.
China invented gunpowder.
China invented the compass.
China invented the printing press.
These inventions transformed the world.

India is an ancient civilization.
The Indus Valley is an ancient civilization.
The Maurya Empire is an Indian empire.
The Gupta Empire is an Indian empire.
The Indus Valley flourished in 2500 BC.
The Indus Valley built planned cities.
The Indus Valley developed plumbing.
The Indus Valley created writing.
The Indus Valley declined for unknown reasons.
Ashoka was emperor of the Maurya Empire.
Ashoka conquered Kalinga.
Ashoka regretted violence.
Ashoka converted to Buddhism.
Ashoka spread Buddhist teachings.
Buddha founded Buddhism.
Buddha taught the Middle Way.
Ashoka promoted Buddhism.
Buddhism spread across Asia.
Buddhism influenced culture.
The Gupta Empire flourished in arts.
The Gupta Empire advanced mathematics.
The Gupta Empire developed astronomy.
The Gupta Empire created the concept of zero.
India developed Hinduism.
Sages wrote the Vedas.
Hinduism taught karma.
Hinduism influenced Indian culture.
Hinduism practiced the caste system.

The Middle Ages is a medieval period.
The Byzantine Empire is a medieval empire.
Eastern Rome survived the fall.
Eastern Rome became the Byzantine Empire.
The Byzantine Empire preserved Greek-Roman culture.
The Byzantine Empire lasted 1000 years.
The Byzantine Empire fell in 1453.
Justinian was emperor of the Byzantine Empire.
Justinian reconquered western territories.
Justinian built Hagia Sophia.
Justinian codified Roman law.
The Justinian Code preserved legal knowledge.

The Islamic Golden Age is a medieval period.
Muhammad was the prophet of Islam.
Muhammad founded Islam.
Muhammad unified Arabia.
Islam spread rapidly.
Islam created the Caliphate.
The Caliphate expanded to the Middle East.
The Caliphate conquered North Africa.
The Caliphate reached Spain.
Islam spread science.
Scholars preserved Greek texts.
Scholars advanced mathematics.
Scholars developed algebra.
Scholars contributed to medicine.
The Abbasid Dynasty is Islamic.
The Abbasid Dynasty founded Baghdad.
The Abbasid Dynasty built the House of Wisdom.
Scholars translated texts.
Baghdad flourished culturally.

Feudalism is a medieval system.
Feudalism is based on land ownership.
Vassals served lords.
Lords protected vassals.
Serfs worked the land.
Charlemagne was king of the Franks.
Charlemagne was crowned Holy Roman Emperor.
Charlemagne united Western Europe.
Charlemagne promoted education.
Charlemagne started the Carolingian Renaissance.

The Viking Age is a medieval period.
Vikings raided Europe.
Vikings sailed longships.
Vikings settled Iceland.
Vikings reached America.

William the Conqueror was Duke of Normandy.
William invaded England.
William won the Battle of Hastings.
William became King of England.
Normans transformed English culture.

The Crusades were medieval wars.
Pope Urban II called a crusade.
Christians mobilized warriors.
Crusaders fought Muslims.
Crusaders captured Jerusalem.
Crusaders established Crusader states.
Europe launched multiple crusades.
Christians lost Jerusalem.
Most crusades failed.
The crusades weakened the Byzantine Empire.
The crusades strained Christian-Muslim relations.

The Mongol Empire is a medieval empire.
Genghis Khan led the Mongols.
Genghis Khan united Mongol tribes.
Genghis Khan created an army.
Genghis Khan conquered Asia.
Genghis Khan founded the largest empire.
Mongols invaded China.
Mongols conquered Persia.
Mongols reached Europe.
The Mongol Empire connected East-West trade.

The Black Death arrived in Europe.
The Black Death spread rapidly.
The Black Death killed a third of the population.
The plague devastated the economy.
The plague weakened feudalism.

England fought France.
The Hundred Years War lasted 116 years.
England claimed the French throne.
Joan of Arc led the French.
France won the war.
Joan of Arc was a peasant from France.
Joan of Arc had visions.
Joan of Arc led the French army.
Joan of Arc lifted the Siege of Orleans.
The English captured Joan of Arc.

King John was king of England.
John oppressed the barons.
Barons forced John.
John signed the Magna Carta.
The Magna Carta limited royal power.

Europe founded universities.
Bologna University was established.
Paris University was founded.
Oxford University was created.
Universities preserved knowledge.

The Renaissance is an early modern period.
The Renaissance started in Italy.
The Renaissance revived classical learning.
Renaissance art flourished.
Renaissance science advanced.
The Renaissance emphasized humanism.
Leonardo da Vinci was a Renaissance artist.
Leonardo painted the Mona Lisa.
Leonardo painted the Last Supper.
Leonardo designed inventions.
Leonardo exemplified the Renaissance man.
Michelangelo was a Renaissance artist.
Michelangelo sculpted David.
Michelangelo painted the Sistine Chapel.
Michelangelo designed St Peters.
Michelangelo mastered multiple arts.
The Medici family was from Florence.
The Medici controlled banking.
The Medici patronized artists.
The Medici supported scholars.
The Medici enabled the Renaissance.

Gutenberg invented the printing press.
Gutenberg printed the Bible.
The printing press enabled mass production.
The printing press spread literacy.
The printing press revolutionized communication.

The Reformation is a religious movement.
Martin Luther was a monk in Germany.
Luther posted the 95 Theses.
Luther criticized the Church.
Luther started the Reformation.
Luther founded Protestantism.
The Reformation split Christianity.
Catholics fought Protestants.
Wars devastated Europe.
The Peace of Westphalia ended the wars.

Exploration is a period of discovery.
Christopher Columbus was an explorer for Spain.
Columbus sought a route to Asia.
Columbus sailed west.
Columbus reached the Americas.
Columbus started the Columbian Exchange.
The Columbian Exchange connected continents.
The Columbian Exchange exchanged goods.
The Columbian Exchange spread diseases.
The Columbian Exchange transformed the world.
Magellan was an explorer for Spain.
Magellan led an expedition.
Magellan sailed around the world.
Magellan died in the Philippines.
The crew completed circumnavigation.
Cortes conquered the Aztecs.
Pizarro conquered the Incas.
Spain established colonies.
Conquistadors exploited resources.
Conquest destroyed indigenous cultures.

The Scientific Revolution is an early modern period.
Copernicus was an astronomer from Poland.
Copernicus proposed the heliocentric theory.
The heliocentric theory challenged geocentrism.
Copernicus showed Earth orbits the sun.
Copernicus started the Scientific Revolution.
Galileo was a scientist in Italy.
Galileo built a telescope.
Galileo observed Jupiter's moons.
Galileo supported Copernicus.
The Church tried Galileo.
Newton was a physicist in England.
Newton discovered gravity.
Newton formulated laws of motion.
Newton invented calculus.
Newton unified physics.

The Enlightenment is an early modern period.
The Enlightenment emphasized reason.
The Enlightenment questioned authority.
The Enlightenment promoted science.
The Enlightenment advanced human rights.
John Locke was a philosopher in England.
Locke wrote Two Treatises.
Locke proposed natural rights.
Locke advocated social contract.
Locke influenced democracy.
Voltaire was a writer in France.
Voltaire advocated tolerance.
Voltaire criticized the Church.
Voltaire defended free speech.
Voltaire influenced revolution.
Rousseau was a philosopher from Geneva.
Rousseau wrote The Social Contract.
Rousseau argued for general will.
Rousseau influenced democracy.
Rousseau inspired the French Revolution.

The American Revolution is a colonial war.
Britain imposed taxes.
Colonists protested taxation.
Colonists declared no taxation without representation.
Colonists boycotted British goods.
Resistance escalated to conflict.
Jefferson wrote the Declaration.
The Declaration declared independence.
The Declaration affirmed rights.
The Declaration inspired democracy.
George Washington was a general of the Continental Army.
Washington led the army.
Washington won the Battle of Yorktown.
Washington secured independence.
Washington became first president.
The Colonies won independence.
The Articles of Confederation failed government.
A convention drafted the Constitution.
The Constitution established federal government.
The Constitution created a republic.

The French Revolution is a political revolution.
Parisians stormed the Bastille.
The Bastille symbolized the old regime.
The Bastille started the revolution.
The revolution spread across France.
The revolution overthrew the monarchy.
Robespierre led the Jacobins.
The Jacobins started the Terror.
The Terror executed thousands.
The Terror used the guillotine.
Napoleon was a general of France.
Napoleon won victories.
Napoleon staged a coup.
Napoleon became emperor.
Napoleon dominated Europe.
Napoleon conquered Europe.
A coalition fought Napoleon.
Napoleon invaded Russia.
The coalition defeated Napoleon.
Powers met in Vienna.
Vienna redrew borders.
Vienna established balance of power.
Vienna restored monarchies.

The Industrial Revolution is a modern period.
Watt invented the steam engine.
The steam engine powered factories.
The steam engine enabled railways.
The steam engine transformed manufacturing.
The steam engine started the Industrial Revolution.
Industrialists built factories.
Factories employed workers.
Factories produced mass goods.
Cities grew rapidly.
Stephenson invented the locomotive.
Britain built railways.
Railways connected cities.
Railways enabled commerce.
Railways transformed society.
Workers worked in factories.
Workers suffered poor conditions.
Workers organized unions.
Unions demanded rights.
Unions fought for reforms.
Karl Marx was a philosopher from Germany.
Marx wrote the Communist Manifesto.
Marx developed communism.
Marx analyzed capitalism.
Marx inspired revolutions.

Nationalism is a modern movement.
Garibaldi led unification.
Garibaldi united Italian states.
Garibaldi fought Austria.
Unification created Italy.
Italy established a kingdom.
Bismarck was Chancellor of Prussia.
Bismarck united German states.
Bismarck fought wars.
Unification created Germany.
Germany proclaimed an empire.

The Civil War is an American war.
The South practiced slavery.
The North opposed slavery.
Slavery divided the nation.
The South seceded states.
Secession started the Civil War.
Abraham Lincoln was president of the Union.
Lincoln led the Civil War.
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.
The Proclamation freed slaves.
Booth assassinated Lincoln.
The Union won the Civil War.
The Civil War freed slaves.
Reconstruction rebuilt the South.
Amendments granted civil rights.
Reconstruction failed integration.

Imperialism is a colonial movement.
Europe competed for Africa.
Powers colonized African territories.
The Berlin Conference met.
The Conference divided Africa.
Colonizers exploited resources.
Britain expanded its empire.
Britain ruled India.
Britain controlled the seas.
Britain became a superpower.
The empire dominated a quarter of the world.
Britain traded opium.
China banned opium.
Britain fought China.
Britain won the wars.
Treaties forced China.

WWI is a global war.
Europe formed alliances.
Nationalism grew tensions.
Princip assassinated Franz Ferdinand.
The assassination triggered war.
War spread globally.
Armies fought in trenches.
Trenches created stalemate.
Armies used new weapons.
WWI caused millions of deaths.
The Allies won WWI.
Versailles signed a treaty.
The treaty blamed Germany.
The treaty imposed reparations.
The treaty created resentment.

The Russian Revolution is a communist revolution.
Lenin led the Bolsheviks.
Bolsheviks overthrew the Tsar.
Lenin seized power.
Bolsheviks established communism.
Lenin created the Soviet Union.
Stalin was leader of the Soviet Union.
Stalin industrialized rapidly.
Stalin collectivized agriculture.
Stalin purged millions.
Stalin established a totalitarian state.

The Great Depression is an economic crisis.
The economy boomed in the 1920s.
Investors speculated heavily.
The stock market crashed in 1929.
The crash triggered depression.
Depression spread globally.
FDR was president of the USA.
FDR implemented the New Deal.
The New Deal created programs.
The New Deal recovered the economy.

WWII is a global war.
Versailles created resentment.
The Great Depression was a crisis.
Hitler rose to power.
Germany invaded Poland.
Invasion started WWII.
Hitler was leader of Germany.
Hitler established dictatorship.
Hitler promoted Nazism.
Nazis persecuted Jews.
The Holocaust caused genocide.
Nazis built concentration camps.
Nazis murdered millions.
Nazis committed genocide.
The Holocaust remains the worst crime.
Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
The attack destroyed the fleet.
USA declared war on Japan.
USA entered WWII.
Entry turned the tide.
Allies planned invasion.
Allies landed in Normandy.
D-Day opened a second front.
Allies liberated France.
Liberation led to victory.
USA developed the atomic bomb.
USA dropped bombs on Hiroshima.
USA dropped bombs on Nagasaki.
Japan surrendered unconditionally.
Surrender ended WWII.

The Cold War is an ideological period.
The Allies won WWII.
Europe divided into East and West.
USA formed NATO.
USSR formed the Warsaw Pact.
Division started the Cold War.
North Korea invaded South Korea.
UN intervened in North Korea.
China fought the UN.
War ended in stalemate.
North Vietnam fought South Vietnam.
USA supported South Vietnam.
USA escalated involvement.
Americans opposed the war.
USA withdrew from Vietnam.
USSR placed missiles in Cuba.
Kennedy blockaded Cuba.
Superpowers confronted in crisis.
Diplomacy resolved the crisis.
USSR launched Sputnik.
USA and USSR competed.
USA landed on the moon.
USA won the space race.

The Civil Rights Movement is an American movement.
Martin Luther King led the movement.
King advocated nonviolence.
King led marches.
King gave the Dream speech.
MLK was murdered.
Activists protested segregation.
The movement pressured government.
Congress passed the Civil Rights Act.
The Civil Rights Act banned discrimination.

Gorbachev was leader of the USSR.
Gorbachev introduced reforms.
Reforms weakened control.
The Berlin Wall fell in Germany.
USSR collapsed in 1991.
USSR built the Berlin Wall.
The Berlin Wall divided the city.
The Berlin Wall symbolized the Cold War.
The Berlin Wall fell in 1989.
Germany reunified the country.

Contemporary is a modern period.
The Information Age is a contemporary period.
Scientists invented the Internet.
The Internet connected the world.
The Internet enabled communication.
The Internet transformed society.
The Internet created the Digital Age.
Globalization increased trade.
Globalization connected economies.
Globalization spread culture.
Globalization created interdependence.
Industrialization increased emissions.
Emissions caused global warming.
Climate change threatens environment.
Climate change requires action.
Climate change challenges humanity.
